Introduction to Object detection for YOLO (#30)
sezan92/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/unit2/cnns/yolo.mdx

# YOLO 

## A short introduction to Object Detection

> Convolutional Neural Networks has taken a big step towards the image classifcation problem. But there remains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Convolutional Neural Networks have taken a big step towards the image classifcation problem. But there remains
```

> another big task to solve. Object detection. Object detection not only requires to categorize the object from the image but also to accurately predict the location (in this case the co-ordinates of the bounding boxes of the object) from the image. Here came the big breakthrough of YOLO. Before delving into the depth of YOLO, lets get through the history of object detection algorithms using CNN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
another big task to solve - object detection. Object detection not only requires to categorize the object from the image but also to accurately predict the location (in this case the co-ordinates of the bounding boxes of the object) from the image. Here came the big breakthrough of YOLO. Before delving into the depth of YOLO, lets get through the history of object detection algorithms using CNN.
```

### RCNN , Fast RCNN , Faster RCNN

#### RCNN

> RCNN is the simplest way possible to use Convolutional neural network for Object detection. to be as simple as possible , the basic idea is to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RCNN is the simplest way possible to use convolutional neural networks for object detection. To be as simple as possible , the basic idea is to 
```

detect a "region" and then use CNN to classify the region . So this is a multi-step process . Based on this idea the RCNN paper was shared in 2012[1]

The RCNN uses following steps , 

- Use Selective Search algorithm to select a region. 
- Use CNN based classifier to classify an object from the region. 

For training purpose, the paper proposed following steps 

- Make a dataset of regions detected from the Object detection dataset. 
- Fine tune Alexnet model on the regions dataset . 
- Then use the fine tuned model on the object detection dataset . 

The following is a basic pipeline of RCNN 
![rcnn](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/RCNN.png)

#### Fast RCNN 

> Fast RCNN is nothing but an improvization over RCNN. They added these three improvements

Reviewer 2: Instead of 'Fast RCNN is nothing but an improvisation over RCNN.' you can mention FastRCNNs focused on improving over RCNN in terms of training and inference speed. Specifically, They added.

> Fast RCNN is nothing but an improvization over RCNN. They added these three improvements

Author: ```suggestion
Fast RCNN is focused on improvisation over the original RCNN. They added these three improvements
```

> - Training in Single-stage instead of Multi-stage like RCNN. Uses Multi-task loss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Training in a single-stage instead of multi-stage like RCNN. Uses multi-task loss
```

- No disk storage required
- Introduces ROI pooling layer to only get the features from the  Region of Interests.
- Trains an end-to-end model in contrary to multi-step RCNN / SPPnet models using multi-task loss.

![fast_rcnn](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/blob/main/Fast%20R-CNN.png)

#### Faster RCNN 

> - It introduces RPN , regional proposal network . The RPN is an attention based model which trains the model to give "attention" to the region of the image 
> containing the object . 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It introduces RPN , regional proposal network . The RPN is an attention based model which trains the model to give "attention" to the region of the image containing the object . 
```

- It merges RPN with Fast RCNN , making it as the End-to-End object detection model. 

![Faster RCNN](https://cdn-uploads.huggingface.co/production/uploads/6141a88b3a0ec78603c9e784/n8eDqnlEvDS5SIKGoSUpz.png)

> #### Feature Pyramid Network (FPN)

Reviewer 2: Can you add how does FPNs connect to the previous ones (Faster RCNN etc)? Is it like an enhancement?

Author: thanks. I think FPN is not related to RCNN family. it should be of its own group

This short chapter presented the history/evolution of YOLO in a linear way. However, this is not the case—many other versions of YOLO were released in parallel. Notice the release of YOLOv4 and YOLOv5 in the same year. Other versions that we did not cover include YOLOvX (2021) which was based on YOLOv3 (2018), YOLOR (2021) which was based on YOLOv4(2020), and many others.
Also, It is important to understand that the selection of the ‘best’ model version depends on the user requirements such as speed, accuracy, hardware limitations, and user-friendliness. For example, YOLOv2 is very good at speed. YOLOv3 provides a balance between accuracy and speed. YOLOv4 has the best ability for adapting/being compatible across different hardware.

## Reference 

> [1] [Rich feature hierarchies for accurate object detection and semantic segmentation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2524v5)

Reviewer 2: I think you should add  <br /> after each reference line in order for every reference to appear in one line.

> [1] [Rich feature hierarchies for accurate object detection and semantic segmentation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2524v5)
> [2] [Fast R-CNN](https://arxiv.org/abs/1504.08083)

Author: ```suggestion
[1] [Rich feature hierarchies for accurate object detection and semantic segmentation](https://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2524v5) <br />
[2] [Fast R-CNN](https://arxiv.org/abs/1504.08083) <br />
```

> [3] [Faster R-CNN](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1506.01497.pdf)
> [4] [Feature Pyramid Network](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1612.03144.pdf)

Author: ```suggestion
[3] [Faster R-CNN](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1506.01497.pdf) <br />
[4] [Feature Pyramid Network](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1612.03144.pdf) <br />
```
